♪ ♪
(waves lapping)
(birds hooting gently)
♪ ♪
(gasps softly)
(objects clattering in other room)
(drawer closes)
Aunty, do you need anything?
No, no.
-Just your share for the month.
-Yeah, soon I'll have it.
How is it?
I start tomorrow, uh...
Um, uh, the mother Amy, she's nice.
I pray for you, eh?
Just work hard to keep it.
Jobs like this,
they don't fall from the sky.
Yes.
-Have a good night.
-(sighs)
Bonsoir, chérie.
(door closes)
(horn honks)
Aisha.
Mm-hmm.
New nanny for the Havs, right?
Yes.
First elevator on the right.
(elevator chiming)
-Aisha.
-Hello, Amy.
(both laugh)
-Welcome.
-Thank you.
-How was the commute?
-Yes, good.
-Not too bad. It was okay.
-Yeah? Great.
-(both chuckle)
-(cell phone dings)
-Thank you.
-(Aisha chuckles)
How are you?
I'm... I'm well.
But I think Rose is a little better.
She's very excited.
-Oh, I am, too. I'm very excited.
-(chuckles)
(Amy laughs)
-Well, um, these are for you.
-(keys jingling)
Oh. Okay.
And I guess, now that it's official,
I'll give you the full tour?
-Yes.
-Excellent.
Okay. Follow me.
First up is Adam's office.
We civilians aren't allowed.
-AISHA: Oh.
-(laughs)
AMY:
And this...
is yours.
I mean, it's nothing fancy.
Uh, for overnights.
And please, uh, make this space yours.
Bring whatever you need to feel at home:
pictures, books, favorite pillow.
Just one small request.
Uh, no candles or incense.
Rose is hypersensitive to certain smells.
Okay.
-AMY: Rose, we're coming in.
-(knocking)
Honey.
Aisha's here.
Hi, Aisha.
(speaks French)
I want you to be a good girl for Mommy.
Okay.
AMY:
So, uh, please,
I don't want you to feel overwhelmed.
Think of it as a loose guide.
A basic schedule,
list of where things are.
-Okay.
-Any number you could possibly need.
Including her therapist.
And, um, some blank pages
for you at the end to make your own.
Okay.
Is this, uh... is this weird?
-No.
-Okay.
Um...
I mean, it might be a little bumpy
at the beginning, but we will...
we'll catch our stride.
Yes, I'm sure.
May I...
-Oh, of course. Of course.
-(Amy chuckles)
(sighs) Thank you.
-AISHA: Mm-hmm.
-Thank you.
Thank you.
(chuckles softly)
(elevator chiming)
(whispers):
Wow.
All right.
Okay.
Can I clean your hands?
(speaks French)
-Are you hungry?
-Yeah.
Yes. Good. Okay.
This is for you.
You have your spoon.
Bon appétit.
Why are you looking at my food?
You want to try it?
Okay.
Take your spoon.
Try just a little bit.
(laughs)
You like it?
-C'est bon?
-C'est bon.
-C'est délicieux?
-C'est délicieux.
(laughs):
Good job, Rose.
Your French is so good.
(Mariatou speaking native language
over phone)
(speaks native language)
...Lamine. Is he near?
You know keeping track of your son...
is like trying to hold water.
Let me get him.
Hi, Mama.
Lamine, my baby.
Are you being a good boy?
Aunty Mariatou tells me
you're not listening.
-She's lying.
-Ah?!
You call your aunty a liar?
I heard you went to Musa's birthday party.
Was it fun?
LAMINE:
They had so much food.
I ate too much.
There wasn't anything else that happened?
Lamine?
Why did you bite Musa?
He took my toy.
I don't want to hear about
any more trouble.
When you come here,
you will have so many toys.
LAMINE:
Okay.
Will it be cold?
Very cold.
There will be snow on the ground.
Remember the pictures I sent you?
Looks like white cotton candy.
White cotton candy.
I will have a very warm coat
waiting for you.
Lamine?
Hello?
I don't know if you can hear me,
but I will see you so soon,
...my love.
("The Best" by Dr. Sid playing)
♪ She say she want a man... ♪
(lively chatter, laughter)
WOMAN:
Aisha!
-Sallay!
-(laughing)
You look beautiful.
-Wow.
-Look at you.
(both laughing)
As late as I am,
they are still setting up?
My dear, you know our people, now.
African time.
(both laughing)
-No stress today.
-Hmm.
-Let loose. Have fun, for once.
-Yeah. I know.
-Yes, it's a bracelet.
-(gasping, indistinct chatter)
Aw.
So pretty. You look so nice.
(laughs)
-Are you ready?
-Yes.
-The Salone people know how to party.
-(laughing)
-You know? You know?
-Let's go.
You know?
(song continues)
(jovial chatter, laughter)
-♪ Happy birthday to you ♪
-♪ Happy birthday to me ♪
♪ Happy birthday, dear Romano ♪
♪ Happy birthday to you. ♪
(applause, cheering)
♪ ♪
-Cinq.
-Ans.
"I am five years old."
J'ai cinq ans.
-(ringtone playing)
-J'ai cinq ans.
-Hi.
-AISHA: Hello. (chuckles)
Hi. What are you girls up to?
We are doing French lessons.
Did Rose finish her food?
Every last drop, yes.
AMY:
Thank God.
Picky doesn't even begin to describe
your eating habits, Rose.
So, listen, Adam is coming home
earlier than expected,
so I'm gonna need all of your help
tomorrow getting everything together.
AISHA:
Okay.
I'm very excited for you to meet him.
-Okay, yes. Looking forward. (chuckles)
-AMY: All right.
-I'll see you ladies soon.
-AISHA: Okay.
-Bye.
-AMY: Bye-bye.
(phone beeps)
(sighs)
(elevator chiming)
Hey.
Sorry I am late.
Things got crazy.
I promise to text next time.
AISHA:
Rose is in bed.
Great. Uh, everything went smooth?
No tantrums?
No, no, none at all.
She is so relaxed with you.
You kept all the receipts?
Yes.
They are all here.
You are amazing. (chuckles)
Uh, one small thing.
I was wondering if you could do
an overnight tomorrow.
I know we didn't discuss Friday nights,
but I have a feeling
things might go a little late,
and I'd like you to keep an eye on Rose.
We agreed on, uh, 100
for the overnight rate, right?
No, it was, um... it was 150.
Oh. Okay. 150.
Okay.
(chuckles):
Okay. Good night, Amy.
All right, have a good night.
-Okay. You, too. Thank you.
-All right.
Hey, no. Lamine.
Hi, Mommy.
Sing "Ayo Nene."
Mama is in the computer.
(Aisha chuckles softly)
Okay, okay, okay, okay, wait, wait.
Come on. Say bye-bye. Say bye-bye.
Bye.
(singing "Ayo Nene" in native language)
(siren wailing in distance)
♪ ♪
Sir, you can put the wine here.
And, um, you can leave that there.
Thank you.
(shower running)
Rose?
(singsongy):
I'm coming to get you.
Rose.
(Rose giggling nearby)
AISHA:
I wonder where she is.
(gasps, laughs)
-You found me!
-I did!
I found you.
You were under the bed.
Oh, so smart.
Okay, ladies and gentlemen.
-In our left corner, we have Rose.
-Here.
And in our right corner,
we have the reigning champion,
Madame Rainbow.
One, and two, and three!
Let's go!
(Aisha making punching noises)
(both squeal, laugh)
AISHA:
Oh, Rose is down for the count.
You beat me. I have lost my title.
You two are having fun.
(laughs) Go to Mommy.
I'm tired.
Oh. Too much play. (laughs)
-(chuckles) I can see that.
-(Aisha laughs)
You're tired, huh?
Hmm?
Don't go far.
♪ ♪
(vacuum whirring)
AMY:
Thank you for picking up the dry cleaning.
I didn't think to bring anything fancy.
Oh, gosh. It's my fault.
I should've told you.
It's just that my head is in a million
different places with work and...
You know.
(cell phone dings)
But it's fine.
Oh, wait. You know what?
(sighs)
Oh, my...
I swear this dress was made for your skin.
-(chuckles)
-I mean, geez.
Mahogany red. Yeah.
Imperial red. Wine red.
The whole family. (laughs)
Okay.
(zipping)
(whispers):
Wow.
Oh.
It's very tight.
Oh, it's... perfect.
Okay.
("Waves" by Denitia playing)
(laughing):
Exactly.
(indistinct chatter, laughter)
At least he thought it.
-In the very least, yes. Thank you.
-(Amy laughing)
(indistinct chatter continues)
(elevator chiming)
(song continues over speakers)
Well, hello there.
Mm, mm.
-Nice to see you.
-Hey, hold on.
Hold on. Hey, hey, hey, hey.
Stop, stop, stop.
Just let me put my shit down.
(scoffing chuckle)
ADAM:
Why are you dressed like that?
I'm sorry, but we haven't even...
ALL:
Surprise!
AMY (chuckles):
Surprise.
Daddy!
(grunts) Hi.
Hey, I got something for you.
(unzips bag)
Wow.
Anansi the Spider.
MAN:
Welcome back, Adam.
-Bonjour!
-ADAM (laughing): Hey.
(chatter continues indistinctly
in other room)
(music playing softly)
(chatter continues indistinctly
in other room)
(Aisha exhales)
MAN (in other room): Except that
that kind of sounds like PC bullshit.
Seriously, just tell me, how does
burning shit down help the cause?
WOMAN: Are you cool waxing philosophical
and being the devil's advocate?
Listen, the devil's got enough help.
You didn't care about the message
-in the first place.
-Tell me, how does... -Exactly.
-WOMAN 2: No, no, Richard, it's fine.
-...burning shit down
and-and-and looting stores
in your own fucking neighborhood
help the cause?
This is not a rhetorical question, people.
WOMAN:
Okay.
ADAM: Uh, I'm sorry. You're gonna
have to bear with me a little bit. Um...
(chatter continues in other room)
Amy and I had talked about hiring someone,
but I didn't know that she had.
It's lovely to meet you,
but it's a little bit of a surprise.
(drawer opens)
She asked me to pay you for tonight.
Anyway, I think from here on out,
she'll keep track, but...
-Thank you.
-Yeah.
Uh... (speaks French)
-Yeah, okay.
-(laughs)
-You can laugh.
-It's not bad.
I was just in, uh... in Lille, France.
They had an uprising there
around police violence.
-Oh. Mm-hmm.
-Yeah.
Yeah, that kid, he had a real fire in him.
Maybe the best public speaker
I've ever seen.
He was like Malcolm X.
They hung on his every word.
He's dead now.
What happened?
Police said it was gang-related.
-I'm going to go to bed now.
-(chuckles) Please, go to sleep.
-Okay.
-I wish I could.
-Bonne nuit.
MARIATOU:
Lamine. Lamine.
(over video):
You know it's a different time in America?
Now it's night there.
Before we leave the beach...
Lamine, tell Mommy bye-bye.
LAMINE:
Bye, Mommy.
(waves sloshing on video)
-(thunder rumbling)
-(distorted scream)
(gasps)
♪ ♪
(distorted scream)
(doorknob rattles)
(rattles)
(grabs object)
(switch clicks)
(creaking, rattling)
(thumping)
(creaking)
♪ ♪
(gasps)
(panting)
♪ ♪
("Yeanoh (Powe'hande Binga'dbe)"
by Kondi Band playing)
(song fades)
AISHA:
Thank you.
Dakar, Senegal, right?
Yes.
When will they get it?
About two business days.
That's cool?
Yes. Thanks, Nikki.
How's your little chocolate drop?
He's good.
He's coming to America, finally.
Yes. I want him to celebrate
his birthday with me.
He coming to live or visit?
To live, thank God.
Word!
African boy coming to the Big Apple. Okay!
-MAN: Let's go.
-NIKKI: All right.
Relax, y'all.
Y'all ain't got no job to go to.
Aisha, you all set.
Kiss those cheeks for me, all right?
AISHA:
Bye.
NIKKI:
Mm-hmm.
-(screaming)
-(man on TV shouts)
I was like, this girl has
forgotten about me now.
-No call, no text, no visit.
-AISHA: No, no, no.
They own me, Sallay.
-I have no life.
-My dear, who are you telling?
I've been braiding since last night.
This is my only customer today,
and then I'm going to sleep.
Mm, work until you die.
The American dream, right? (laughs)
Sallay, I told you
about pulling on my edges.
Sorry, sorry, sorry.
Have you thought about going back?
-You know, to live.
-AISHA: To live?
Where? With what money?
(laughing):
What are you talking about?
I know.
Nigeria has definitely seen
the last of me.
I'd rather be asleep in America
than asleep in Africa.
At least here, when you work,
you see the money.
-AISHA: Mm.
-(Sallay chuckles)
Do we?
I think maybe if you apologized
to Lamine's father and his wife,
maybe they can help you.
You know, send you money or something.
Apologize? For what?
It is him who should apologize.
For impregnating every teen girl
on her way to school.
(scoffs) He knew he was married
when he paid for my school fees.
When he gave me money for food,
clothes, my sick mother.
Trust me, I know how it is.
All these big men
that play with little girls,
and it's always the little girls
who are punished.
He doesn't care
whether his own son lives or dies.
He has not met him. You know that?
Can you imagine?
Cut me off when I was pregnant.
(sighs)
I remember the night I found out.
I went to the beach.
The moon was so big.
The water was so cold at my feet.
This one I would keep.
Lamine is the best thing
that happened to me, Sallay.
He is my greatest work.
(chuckles)
He's a beautiful boy.
I can't wait for him to meet you, huh?
-His new girlfriend.
-(Sallay laughing)
He will love you. I know.
He's a ladies' man.
(chuckles)
(Aisha chuckles)
(sighs)
I've missed you.
I just want you to be happy, Aisha.
You can't just work
from morning till night,
night till morning.
You need to get out.
AISHA:
I'm okay, Sallay. I'm fine.
I am.
-I love you.
(water running)
(to tune of "Frère Jacques"):
♪ Wash your hands, wash your hands ♪
♪ In between, in between ♪
♪ Don't forget the back,
don't forget the back ♪
♪ And your wrist ♪
BOTH:
♪ And your wrist. ♪
Hmm.
(water runs, stops)
What are you drawing?
-A unicorn.
-A unicorn?
♪ ♪
(grabs knife)
Rose? Rose.
(shower running)
Rose?
♪ ♪
(whispers):
Mommy's resting.
Rose, come. Come on.
AISHA:
Okay, it's time to eat now, Rose.
-Hi.
-ROSE: Daddy!
Hi, piglet. How are you?
You ready to go?
-Yeah.
-Yeah?
-Hi, Aisha.
-Hi.
What time do you get off today?
Um, I'm not sure. I was going to ask.
Amy's here, but she's, um, resting.
You, uh... you want to come
to dinner with us?
Um, are-are you sure?
Yeah.
-You want me to come, Rose?
-Good?
-Okay.
-ADAM: Let's get some shoes on you.
I don't know what you did to her,
but she hasn't eaten this much in months.
-Really?
-It's nice.
She loves to eat. (laughs)
Whose child are you talking about?
-(both laugh)
-I mean...
I-I make her some Senegalese food,
and she loves it.
Rose, you like the chebu jën, yes?
-C'est bon? C'est bon?
-C'est bon.
What did you do before you came here?
-I was a teacher in Senegal.
-Right. Of course you were.
I, um... I-I studied English
and French in school.
You're a wonderful teacher.
And you're clearly very smart, Aisha.
I know...
I can tell you're not gonna be with us
for very long.
Much as I'd like to keep you.
Can I ask you something?
Sure.
I am having a difficult time
with the hours.
Thank you.
I don't mind working the hours,
but I think Amy forgets sometimes,
um, to pay me.
Um, there are many hours
I have not been paid.
About a week's worth of pay.
I'm sorry.
I'll talk to her.
I won't say you brought it up.
Well, I was wondering if...
if it's possible
if you could be in charge of my pay
since your hours seem more flexible.
Uh, I would like to, but...
-WOMAN: Adam? Is that you?
-(chuckles)
-Oh, my God. Hi.
-ADAM: Oh, my God. How are you?
-(kisses)
-Hey.
You look amazing.
-It's nice to see you.
-Nice to see you.
-(gasps) Hi.
-Remember Rose?
Last time I saw you,
you were just a teeny, tiny thing.
-Bonjour.
-(squeals) Oh, my gosh, how cute!
ADAM:
This is Aisha.
Aisha, this is Christie.
Hi.
I'm gonna pay the bill, but, uh,
you guys should go on ahead.
But I will talk to her about that at home.
Okay. Thank you.
Okay, Rose. On y va.
-Hello.
-Hi.
So, you following me or what?
-Do you want me to be following you?
-(chuckles): Oh.
I like how you said that.
(both chuckling)
Uh, so you gonna tell me where you from?
Or do you think I'm like
every other dumb American
who thinks that Africa
is just one big-ass country?
(Aisha laughing)
Mm, it starts with an "S."
Starts with an "S."
Okay, starts with an "S."
♪ Sierra Leone. ♪
-(chuckles) No.
-No?
-South Africa.
-(clicks tongue)
Mm. Okay. Okay.
Senegal.
-O... kay!
-Wow.
-Ah...
-(Aisha laughing)
We got a winner.
(both laughing)
Yo.
You didn't think I knew that, huh?
Yo, but let me ask you this, though.
Who has the best jollof rice?
-'Cause let Nigerians tell it, I mean...
-Mm.
Let Nigerians tell it,
they have the best of everything.
Oh, let Nigerians tell it,
they have the best of...? Okay.
What do you know about jollof rice?
What don't I know about jollof rice?
Jollof rice over here,
jollof rice over there.
-Jollof rice in that bag.
-(laughing)
Yeah, I know you snuck it in there.
Okay.
Good to see you.
Good night, Miss Aisha.
(chuckles)
(quiet chatter)
(cell phone dings)
(line ringing)
(Mariatou speaking French
in recorded voice mail greeting)
(line beeps)
♪ ♪
(women screaming faintly)
(women wailing)
(wailing grows louder)
(women screaming)
(baby wails, cries nearby)
(seabird chirping)
(alarm chiming over cell phone)
(alarm stops)
(sighs)
(elevator chiming)
(door opens)
Bishop.
What did I say are the rules
when you come with Daddy to work, hmm?
Don't wander the hallway
because then Daddy will get fired.
All right, now,
we almost out of here, okay?
Hey.
You all right?
You look like you saw a ghost.
No, no. Just tired.
They let you bring him here?
Let me? No.
Shit happens. I brought him.
-My dad has a crush on you.
-MALIK: Okay. (chuckles)
-(laughs)
-(chuckles softly)
I mean, he ain't lying, though.
So, what, you think I can see you?
I mean outside of here.
I think you could.
Goodbye, Bishop.
AISHA (recorded):
Hello. You've reached Aisha.
I can't come to the phone,
but leave a message
and I will call you back
as soon as possible.
Thank you.
-(line beeps)
-MALIK (recorded): Wow.
See, I can't believe you got me
leaving voice mails.
When you gonna let me
take you out finally?
Come through.
We'll have a good time.
My grandmother won't take no
for an answer.
KATHLEEN:
Tea?
I've got hibiscus, ginger, turmeric.
(chuckles)
AISHA:
Thank you.
Enjoy.
I feel like I've met you before.
Very possibly. (chuckles)
I lived all over West Africa
for ten years.
(sighs)
Fell in love with that continent.
I miss my country.
Every day.
The good parts.
Do tell me about the bad parts.
(sighs):
Hmm.
Ah.
That's one of my favorites.
It's an interpretation of Mami Wata.
Some believe that the mermaid
lures sexuality,
money and promises of fertility,
but they're very dangerous,
unpredictable and impermanent.
I feel like I saw her.
Them.
My grandmother believed in magic.
But...
me, I never did.
Whether you do or not,
you are magic.
What's your boy's name?
How do you know?
MALIK:
All right.
Sorry, sometimes Grandma
like to ask a lot of questions.
Does she ask them of all the women
that come through here?
Only the ones that pique my interest.
But there haven't been many.
That pique your interest?
Or it's time to go.
Mm, I love you, Grams.
Stay out of trouble, all right?
-Mm, maybe.
-Okay. Okay.
AISHA:
It was really nice to meet you.
(door opens)
Lamine.
(door closes)
(car door opens)
(laughs)
("Summertime with You" by Titose playing)
MALIK:
So...
-Hmm?
-Have you done soul food before?
-Is this soul food?
-This is soul food.
-Wow. No, I haven't.
-No. Okay.
-Uh, so there is one rule. One rule only.
-Okay. What's that?
-Eat everything.
-(laughs) Okay.
Thank you.
-That was very good.
-Mm-hmm.
(speaks phrase in native language)
(repeats phrase)
(Aisha laughs,
corrects Malik's pronunciation)
It means, uh, it was delicious,
it was wonderful.
-Thank you. (repeats phrase)
-AISHA: Yes.
(both laughing)
-No.
-Yes. Okay, look. You have to try this.
I-I'm so full.
Oh, but this is the best cheesecake
on the East Coast.
-So you have to. Please.
-Okay.
Come on, just one bite.
-Mm-hmm. Mm!
-Mm.
We got a winner.
Can I ask you something?
Of course. Ask me anything.
Your grandmother...
(chuckles)
Ah... Um...
Well...
most people are born
with the ability to see.
-Oh, she's a witch.
-(laughs): A witch?
Nah.
A priestess.
-Like a psychic?
-Like a psychic.
In Senegal, we call 'em...
we call this marabout.
That's Grams. Marabout. Marabouts.
Uh, we'll call her, we'll tell her today,
change her business card
from "intuitive consultant"
and put "marabout."
(both laugh)
She's lovely.
-Yeah.
-Mm.
Forget the marabout.
You have a son?
Yes, I do.
Do you want to see a picture of him?
I do.
-Yes. Yes.
-All right.
What's his name?
His name is Lamine.
And what's that mean?
It means "chosen one."
"Chosen one."
Ooh, the chosen... Okay.
-I get it now. Yes.
-(Aisha laughing)
Look at this brother.
-And that smile-- what?
-(Aisha laughs)
He's beautiful. You know that?
Thank you.
-He's coming soon for his birthday.
-Mm.
I haven't seen him in almost a year.
Wow. That is...
like a lifetime for a child.
Yes, I know.
And you?
-And me?
-Yes.
You have how many kids?
Ooh. (clears throat)
Five.
Five?
-Four plus Bishop?
-Four plus Bishop.
-And how many mothers?
-Ooh.
Five.
Yeah, I don't like to double-dip,
you know?
I like to spread it around New York.
One in Brooklyn, one in Harlem,
one in Queens.
-Oh, gosh. (laughs)
-(Malik laughing)
I had you, though.
-I got you. You believed me
for a second, though. -No. No.
-Yeah, you did. I saw that face.
-I knew you were lying.
You were like, "Let me get my purse."
(both laughing)
Nah, man,
just my little knucklehead Bishop.
-Just Bishop?
-Just Bishop. I promise.
(chuckles) Mm.
Well, I try not to judge.
Don't want people judging me.
-That's real.
-Mm.
I respect it.
Was the woman in the pictures
in your house-- is that your mother?
(inhales deeply)
Yeah. Yeah.
-Uh...
-I'm sorry.
No.
My mom has been talking to herself,
laughing at the jokes inside her head
since I can remember.
I used to hate when she would come
pick me up from school.
Folks used to see her before I did.
Pacing back and forth,
banging on the lockers,
making up people in the hallway.
So I started pumping weights.
You know?
Dressing fly.
No one would talk shit to me
about my schizophrenic ma.
-Is she...
-Dead.
("Plastic 100°C" by Sampha playing)
Mm-hmm.
My mother died when I was 12.
What happened?
It was cancer.
MALIK:
They say that when you love someone,
they live forever.
♪ It's so hot,
I've been melting out here ♪
♪ I'm made out of plastic out here ♪
♪ You touched down
in the base of my fears ♪
♪ Houston, can-can-can you hear? ♪
♪ I've been melting, melting down here ♪
-♪ Houston, can-can-can you hear me now? ♪
-(song ends)
("Water" by Tanerélle playing)
♪ ♪
(song ends)
(playful chatter, laughter)
All right.
You ready? Yes.
-What do you want to do today?
-Um...
-Maybe the swings?
-Hi.
-Hi, Ella.
You want to go? Okay, à tout à l heure.
-MARIATOU: Hello, how are you?
-Mari?
Ah, I am just playing.
(Mariatou speaks native language)
-Leave a message.
-(line beeps)
Why did you change
your voice mail message, Mari?
Please keep Lamine up for me.
I get off late these days.
(indistinct chatter)
-Hi.
-Hi, dear.
-AISHA: Hello.
-Cynthia.
Florence.
-Aisha.
-FLORENCE: Nice to meet you, Aisha.
Yeah, it's nice to meet you.
(Cynthia and Florence
chatting indistinctly, laughing)
WOMAN:
Chloe! Come on, baby.
Time to go. We got to go.
-Shit, Cynthia!
-You watch your mouth, David.
Go on and play now.
You can use the exercise.
No manners.
Parents too busy letting him eat junk.
I try to cook real food,
but everything too spicy.
Curry too spicy, salt too spicy,
air too spicy.
(laughter)
So, why you make the boy
call you by your first name?
(scoffs)
Well, my baby Elizabeth, she know better.
She not gonna know a thing
when she burn up.
You better put sunscreen pon dear Lizzie.
Police will lock you up quick fast
if you make them people children sick.
-(laughs)
-You know them quick to say "abuse."
FLORENCE: Speaking of abuse,
remember that Dominican nanny, Sonia? Mm?
CYNTHIA:
You heard what happened to Sonia?
Sonia was sick-- the kind you can't see.
(voice fading): Slit her employers'
child throat from ear to ear...
(thunder rumbling)
♪ ♪
(distorted laughter)
-(gasps)
-(children squealing)
How could you let her out of the park?
Someone will report you.
You okay?
AISHA:
"'Hold on, son,
"'for if you fall,
"Death is going to get you,'
"Anansi the spider said to his child.
"However, the boy could not
hold on any longer.
"Therefore, he fell.
"Death caught the boy
"and opened the burlap bag.
"'It is your father I want, not you.'
"Then he placed the child
into the burlap bag.
"Another of Anansi's daughters
cried out to her father.
"'Papa, please, my hands are tired.
I am going to fall.'"
Is Anansi bad, Aisha?
AISHA:
Hmm.
Do you know the word "filou"?
Filou?
-Trickster.
Anansi is this big.
Mm-hmm.
And most of the people who bother Anansi
are as big as you
or as big as me or bigger.
Therefore, he uses his intelligence
to survive.
Sometimes he is good.
Sometimes he is very bad.
But he is a survivor.
Survivant.
Survivant. Survivor.
Yes.
Are you ready to tell me
why you left the park, Rose?
Anansi told me to.
AISHA:
Sorry it's late.
I just want to hear your voice.
I miss you.
Very soon.
LAMINE:
Very soon. Always very soon.
AISHA:
It's true, Lamine.
I love you.
LAMINE:
Love you, too, Mommy.
(elevator chiming)
(gasps, exhales)
Aisha.
Why are you still here?
I told Adam to let you go. Where is he?
I don't know where Adam is.
I haven't seen him.
Right.
Um...
I got a promotion.
I mean, not a raise yet,
but, uh, um...
You happy for me?
(chuckles softly)
I mean, you know what it's like, right?
Being a woman.
Overseeing everything.
Expected to go and get drinks
with the guys every Friday night
just to, like, pretend you're one of them.
But we'll never be
one of the guys, will we?
'Cause it's a fucking boys' club.
(rummaging)
Okay.
Do me a favor. Watch Adam.
Good night.
-(elevator chiming)
-(doors squeak open)
(shower running)
(shower stops)
♪ ♪
-(door creaking)
-WOMAN (whispers): Aisha.
Aunty?
♪ ♪
(gasps)
(trembling breaths)
Rose?
Come here. (grunts)
-What have you been doing?
-Daddy.
It's her bedtime.
I was just going to put you to bed.
You ready for bed, piglet? Come on.
Go with Aisha.
Oh. Hey.
Before I forget, um...
Amy's working late, but I know
today's supposed to be payday, right?
-Yes. Thank you.
-You're welcome.
-Say, "Bonne nuit, papa."
-Bonne nuit, papa.
ADAM:
Bonne nuit, Rosie.
Okay.
(sings "Ayo Nene" in native language)
♪ ♪
-Hi.
I was just gonna come find you.
You hungry?
Um, yes.
Good.
How was she today?
She was fine.
Good.
I got this extra spicy.
Amy hates hot food.
Says it dulls the taste buds.
Adam.
Mm-hmm?
She has not paid me what I am owed.
The thing is...
I need to bring my son here.
-Your son?
-Yes.
How old is he?
He will be seven in a few days.
All right, well, I'll tell you what.
I will, uh...
I'll advance you some of the money
till we can figure this out.
I'm sorry, things have been a...
little tight around here for everyone.
It is not an advance.
It is what I am owed.
Okay.
♪ ♪
(door opens, closes)
I, uh... I could go to the ATM, but, um,
it's a start.
-Thank you.
-Mm.
♪ ♪
Mm. Fuck.
(laughing):
Ow. Ow.
I guess I deserved that.
Hey.
I'm sorry. I shouldn't have done that.
I'm sorry.
Don't tell Amy about... that.
She's a little, uh... (sighs)
She's a little by the book sometimes.
Might complicate things for you.
(elevator beeping)
(takes deep breath)
♪ ♪
MARIATOU:
Hello. Assalamu alaikum.
-AISHA: Hello. Mari?
-MARIATOU: Ah, I am just playing.
(Mariatou speaks native language)
Leave a message.
MAN:
Head up, head up. Come on. Kick.
Aisha, look.
-MAN: Five, four, three, two, one.
-(whistle blows)
Yeah, good job!
(chatter continues indistinctly)
-ROSE: I got it!
-MAN: Let's go.
(chatter continues indistinctly)
MAN:
Ready to go?
-Everybody ready? Ready?
-CHILD: Three, two, one!
MAN:
Let's go, guys! Let's go.
Keep kicking.
(chatter continues indistinctly)
-CHILD: Got you!
-MAN: Let's go.
Keep kicking. Keep kicking.
(water burbling)
♪ ♪
(gasps)
(panting)
(water splashing gently)
(trembling breaths)
♪ ♪
(whimpering)
(gasping)
(screams)
(distorted water running)
(gasping)
MAN:
Are you okay?
I'm fine.
KATHLEEN:
Anansi and Mami Wata
are figures of survival and resistance
for oppressed people.
(ice clinks in glass)
They challenge the dominant order.
(exhales sharply)
Subverting it through chaos,
anarchy, creative energy.
They refuse to be ruled
by the human or the divine.
I wish I knew what they wanted from me.
You should be asking
what they want for you.
I had to learn the hard way.
They tried to warn me.
But I ignored the signs.
That grief, that guilt...
lingers with you.
She was beautiful.
Losing her...
almost broke me.
But...
I had to forgive myself.
I didn't fail her.
The system did.
She wasn't meant to be held down here.
She was meant to fly.
She started threatening to hurt others.
Herself.
A manic episode like I had never seen.
I wasn't so much scared for myself.
I was scared for Malik.
He was just a small boy then.
I called the police.
Cops didn't ask any questions.
Didn't care.
Stormed in with
their preconceived notions,
ready for rage.
Slammed Gloria down like a rabid animal.
Exposed her body.
Handcuffed her.
Started to tase her,
so I threw myself between them.
When they took her away in that car,
in her eyes... (scoffs)
(voice echoing, distorting):
I saw something...
that had shifted.
The spirits equipped us with resilience.
But the spirits' tools aren't always kind.
Some want blood, an eye for an eye.
Some just want you rebirthed
so you can persist.
One can never really define good and evil.
My question for you, Aisha:
How do you use your rage?
Is it your superpower,
or is it your kryptonite?
(gasps)
(gasping)
(panting)
(Aisha speaks French)
(sighs)
Manger. Chebu jën.
Yes.
(humming a tune)
Okay.
It's good?
ROSE:
Mm-hmm.
(footsteps approaching)
AMY:
What are you feeding her?
I didn't know you were here.
That's not what I asked you.
I work...
I work so hard.
So hard.
And the one time I come home sick,
I find you feeding my daughter food
that is way too spicy for her tummy!
What is even in this?
What if she's allergic?
Should I feed her this?
Hmm?
Or this? Or this?
Since I started,
I have been buying her food
or making some of my own.
Did you ever wonder
how your child was eating,
or are you too busy to care?
Honey...
I want you to go pick out a book
for Mommy to read to you, okay?
Any country you want.
(speaks French)
Let Mommy and I talk.
It's okay.
Now that I have your attention...
My overtime hours.
Did you subtract the hours you spent
losing track of my daughter?
My time is not free.
This is a small community,
and nannies talk.
So do mothers.
I am a mother, too.
I thought so.
I knew that from the moment I met you.
It can't happen again.
It won't.
I need an overnight from you tomorrow.
-No.
-I need to get out of here.
-I need to get away.
I can't fucking think
in this overpriced shoebox.
So, 7:00 to 7:00--
150 flat rate is very reasonable.
250.
You drive a very hard bargain.
In advance.
(chuckles)
You think cash is just laying around?
Plus unpaid overtime.
All right. I'll get money from the ATM.
Adam will pay you in the morning.
(grunts) It all comes from me anyway.
♪ ♪
ROSE:
Aisha, no. Don't leave. Don't leave me.
Rose, I'll be back, okay?
-ROSE: Aisha, no!
-AISHA: It's okay.
-ROSE: Please don't leave me!
-That's enough.
-I'll be back. (speaks French)
-AMY: Come to Mommy.
-Okay? I'll be back.
-Hey. Come to me, all right?
You want to go to the dollhouse?
-ROSE: No.
-AMY: Huh? Come on!
-ROSE: No! Get off me!
-AMY: Rose!
-ROSE: I don't want to go.
-AMY: Settle down. Settle down.
-(traffic passing outside)
-(dogs barking in distance)
♪ ♪
(shuddering breaths)
(hissing)
(yelping)
(panicked whimpering)
(Malik shushing quietly)
Breathe. Breathe.
-I'm with you, okay?
-(Aisha breathing heavily)
Ten toes on the floor, okay?
Say it with me: "Ten toes on the floor."
-Ten toes on the floor.
-Ten toes on the floor. You're okay.
Okay. Breathe.
Okay, you're okay. You're okay.
♪ ♪
(sighs)
(paper rustles)
(alarm whooping outside)
(car horns honking)
-(traffic passing)
-(horns honking)
-(sirens blaring)
-(fire truck horn blasting)
(cacophony of traffic sounds)
(traffic sounds stop abruptly)
(exhales)
♪ ♪
-(rumbling)
-(water dripping)
-(trembling breaths)
-(creaking)
(gasping)
(yelps, gasps)
(breathing heavily)
♪ ♪
-ADAM: Hey. That's enough.
-(Aisha panting)
Come here, Rosie.
Ah, man.
That's gotten pretty bad.
You see it, right?
The mold. Yeah.
I didn't realize it was so out of control.
Um, I'll make up the sofa for you tonight.
It's actually much more comfortable
than that bed, to be honest.
Did, uh... did Amy happen to mention
where she was going?
No. She didn't say.
All right. I'm gonna go.
-I'll see you tomorrow, okay?
-Okay.
-Bye, Aisha.
-Bye.
(speaks French)
Yeah.
ROSE:
♪ La-la, la-la, la-la, la ♪
♪ La-la, la-la, la-la, la-la, la ♪
(Rose yelling playfully)
♪ Sonnez les matines, sonnez les matines ♪
♪ Ding, dang, dong, ding, dang, dong. ♪
(Rose yelling playfully)
♪ ♪
(Rose chattering playfully)
(Rose continues yelling)
ROSE:
♪ Alouette, gentille alouette... ♪
(Rose's voice overlapping)
♪ Ding, dang, dong, ding, dang, dong. ♪
(water running)
-Eat.
-But I want your food.
No. This is the food
your mommy wants you to eat.
Rose.
Please, eat.
-No!
-(bowl clatters)
Pick it up!
Pick... it up.
♪ ♪
(water running)
(water burbling)
(water continues running)
Rose!
Rose?
Please!
We are not playing right now!
(eerie voices speaking indistinctly)
Rose!
(shuddering breaths)
KATHLEEN:
He was just a small boy then.
ROSE (faintly):
Help me!
(eerie voices moaning)
♪ ♪
(eerie voice gasping)
(voices moaning louder)
(voice screaming)
♪ ♪
(flame roaring)
(voice screaming)
(voices quiet)
(Aisha gasps)
(yelps)
(breath echoing)
♪ ♪
(water burbling)
(yelps)
(gasps)
(gasping)
-(panting)
-WOMAN (whispers): Aisha.
(gasps)
Aisha.
ROSE:
What is it?
Rose! Rose!
(panting)
Are you okay?
(both panting)
Are you okay, Rose?
I was confused.
He made you do it.
He's jealous.
Who is jealous?
Lamine.
What do you know about Lamine?
Why would you say that?
Rose.
What do you know about Lamine?
Why did you say that?
Anansi told me.
He said it's my fault.
(line beeps)
MARIATOU:
Aisha.
Sorry we keep, uh, missing your call.
Uh...
my cell, I had to... (sighs)
You know, you never ask about me.
(chuckles)
My mother isn't doing well.
She's getting worse.
But, anyway, uh...
I'll call you back.
Talk soon.
(traffic rumbling in distance)
(cell phone dings)
ADAM (recorded): Took Rosie to breakfast,
and I didn't want to wake you.
Pay's on the table.
Get that hand checked out.
("Demba" by Sekouba Diabate
and Sekou Oumar Dioubate playing)
Okay. You good, girl.
(song continues playing over earbuds)
AISHA:
Is there anything else you need?
MARIATOU:
No. Tickets are booked.
Lamine is napping.
AISHA:
Oh, don't wake him.
Call before you take off.
And how's your mother?
MARIATOU:
She will be okay.
-Aisha.
-AISHA: Yes?
MARIATOU:
Nothing.
See you soon.
(song continues)
(laughing)
(song fades)
Some of the luggage was delayed,
so there might be some stragglers,
but the flight arrived early.
Okay.
But I can't find my son or my cousin.
Miss, there's not much else I can do.
Is there any other family...
(indistinct chatter)
(jet engine rumbling)
(cell phone ringtone playing nearby)
Mari?
Aisha.
Where is Lamine?
Aisha, forgive me.
"Forgive you?" Where is he?
...wanted to tell you.
Tell me what?!
You said you would have our ticket sooner.
Where is he?
None of this would've happened
had you bought the tickets earlier.
We looked away only for a minute...
Mariatou!
Where is Lamine?!
When we went to the beach.
The waves...
...were too strong.
(sobbing)
Didn't know how to tell you.
He drowned.
We looked everywhere.
(Mariatou sobbing)
(faint distorted chatter and singing)
(waves lapping)
♪ ♪
AISHA:
Going to get some air.
-You gonna be okay?
-Mm.
♪ ♪
(door opens)
(door closes)
("Fully Lost, Fully Found" by Yatta
playing)
♪ Falling slowly to the ground ♪
♪ Fully lost and fully found ♪
♪ Running late but almost there ♪
♪ Only stop to check the mirror ♪
♪ Backpack full of things ♪
♪ No one told me what to bring ♪
♪ Teach me how to swim ♪
♪ Make me born again ♪
♪ Ah... ♪
♪ ♪
(song fades)
(waves lapping)
♪ ♪
-(gasping)
-MALIK: Aisha.
Okay. It's okay.
-KATHLEEN: She's pregnant. Be careful.
-MALIK: It's okay.
It's okay.
♪ ♪
("Tunkara" by Sillaba featuring
Maher Cissoko and Andreas Unge playing)
♪ ♪
(music fades)
(waves lapping)